README for csv2anki
A program to allow user to reorder and/or combine columns of a CSV file.

The program writes the content of a named CSV file to stdout under the
control of the user input list of column numbers and list of separators.
The columns are numbered beginning with 1 and each and every column
separator must be specified in a column separated list. Consequently the
output separators may be anything other than commas.

The input CSV file must use commas as column separators and there may be
commas embedded within a column protected by wrapping the column in
double quotes. This is because it is the default output of CSV from
LibreOffice. By default, the program strips the quote protection of
embedded commas in columns because it is expected that the separators in
the output will be something else such as ';' or ' ' if 2 input columns
are to be combined into 1 in the output. In particular this output is
suitable for using the output CSV as input notes to the program 'anki'.

The output separators are strings so it is possible to use something
like '<br />' as an output column separator if required.

It is possible to optionally transfer the quotations protecting input
columns to the output if required. While you may not specify ',' as an
output separator it is easy to use eg ';' and pipe the output through
'sed' to replace it with ',' if the CSV format in use makes this a
sensible choice. See the man page for more information.

The correct number of input columns is any input CSV file is deemed to
be the number in the first row. Columns having more or less columns in
later rows are reported as errors and listed on stderr. They are not
treated as fatal errors. Any columns of zero length will appear in the
same way in the output.
