HEXSED
Linux User's Manual
%%mtime(%Y-%m-%d)

= NAME =
**hexsed** - a stream editor that uses parameters supplied in hex.

= SYNOPSIS =
**hexsed** [-n] [=count]d/find/ filename

**hexsed** [-n] [=count]op/find/insert/ filename

where op is one of: i, insert before find string; a, append to find
string; and r, replace the find string.


Where both find and insert must be strings of hex digits expressed
in ASCII. The edited result is sent to //stdout//.

The optional count if specified will cause editing to quit once the
number of edits performed reaches that count.

**hexsed** -[a|e|i|o] char|esc sequence.
Delivers the 2 digit hex ASCII string that represents the input char.

**hexsed** -s string

Delivers the 2 didgit hex ASCII string for each byte in string.

**hexsed** -u codepoint

Delivers the string of hex bytes representing the utf8 codepoint given.


= DESCRIPTION =
**hexsed** writes the edited content of the input file to //stdout//. If
the hex sequence to find is not found then the output is a copy of the
input. Optionally it will write a count of the deletions or changes.

= OPTIONS =

:  **-h, --help**
print help information and exit.

:  **-a, --ascii**
Char. Outputs the 2 digit hex representation of the char input. Must be
a single byte char, use --string for multi-byte chars.

:  **-e, --escape**
\char. Outputs the 2 digit hex representation of the escape
sequence input. Single byte only after '\'.

:  **-i, --integer**
Decimal digits. Outputs the 2 digit hex representation of the digits input.
Legal range is 0 - 255, outside range is an error.

:  **-o, --octal**
Octal digits. Outputs the 2 digit hex representation of the digits input.
Legal range is 0 - 377, outside range is an error.

:  **-u, --utf8**
Utf8 codepoint in various representations: '<U+nnnn>' where nnnn is
hex codepoint, '&#Xnnnn;' or '&#nnnn;'; hex or decimal representation of
html entity codepoint repectively, or unadorned numbers, 0xnnnn for hex;
0nnnn for octal; or simply nnnn for a decimal number. If the codepoint
number is too large for 4 byte utf8 sequence it's an error.

:  **-s, --string**
Null terminated array of bytes. Outputs the 2 digit hex representation
of each byte in the string. Escape sequences like \n, \t may be included.

:  **-n, --edit-count**
Causes the count of applied edits to be output.


= AUTHOR =
Robert L Parker rlp1938@gmail.com

